now the Philistines gathered their
now the Philistines gathered their armies together to battle and were
armies together to battle and were
armies together to battle and were gathered at sokham which belongs to
gathered at sokham which belongs to
gathered at sokham which belongs to Judah they encamped between SoCo and a
Judah they encamped between SoCo and a
Judah they encamped between SoCo and a Zika in efest Danone and soul and the
Zika in efest Danone and soul and the
Zika in efest Danone and soul and the men of Israel were gathered together and
men of Israel were gathered together and
men of Israel were gathered together and they encamped in the Valley of Elah and
they encamped in the Valley of Elah and
they encamped in the Valley of Elah and drew up in battle array against the
drew up in battle array against the
drew up in battle array against the Philistines the Philistines stood on a
Philistines the Philistines stood on a
Philistines the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side and Israel stood on
mountain on one side and Israel stood on
mountain on one side and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side with a
a mountain on the other side with a
a mountain on the other side with a valley between them and a champion went
valley between them and a champion went
valley between them and a champion went out from the camp of the Philistines
out from the camp of the Philistines
out from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath from Gath whose height was
named Goliath from Gath whose height was
named Goliath from Gath whose height was six cubits and a span he had a bronze
six cubits and a span he had a bronze
six cubits and a span he had a bronze helmet on his head and he was armed with
helmet on his head and he was armed with
helmet on his head and he was armed with a coat of mail and the weight of the
a coat of mail and the weight of the
a coat of mail and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of bronze
coat was five thousand shekels of bronze
coat was five thousand shekels of bronze and he had bronze Armour on his legs and
and he had bronze Armour on his legs and
and he had bronze Armour on his legs and a bronze javelin between his shoulders
a bronze javelin between his shoulders
a bronze javelin between his shoulders now the staff of his spear was like a
now the staff of his spear was like a
now the staff of his spear was like a Weaver's beef and his iron spear head
Weaver's beef and his iron spear head
Weaver's beef and his iron spear head weighed six hundred shekels and a shield
weighed six hundred shekels and a shield
weighed six hundred shekels and a shield bearer went before him that he stood
bearer went before him that he stood
bearer went before him that he stood ride out to the armies of Israel and
ride out to the armies of Israel and
ride out to the armies of Israel and said to them
said to them
said to them why have you come out to line up for
why have you come out to line up for
why have you come out to line up for battle am I not a Philistine and you the
battle am I not a Philistine and you the
battle am I not a Philistine and you the servants of Sol choose a man for
servants of Sol choose a man for
servants of Sol choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me
yourselves and let him come down to me
yourselves and let him come down to me if he is able to fight with me and kill
if he is able to fight with me and kill
if he is able to fight with me and kill me that we will be your servants but if
me that we will be your servants but if
me that we will be your servants but if I prevail against him and kill him then
I prevail against him and kill him then
I prevail against him and kill him then you shall be our servants and serve us I
you shall be our servants and serve us I
you shall be our servants and serve us I defy the armies of Israel this day give
defy the armies of Israel this day give
defy the armies of Israel this day give me a man that we may fight together when
me a man that we may fight together when
me a man that we may fight together when Saul and all Israel heard these words of
Saul and all Israel heard these words of
Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine they were dismayed and
the Philistine they were dismayed and
the Philistine they were dismayed and greatly afraid now David was the son of
greatly afraid now David was the son of
greatly afraid now David was the son of that efj recite of Bethlehem Judah whose
that efj recite of Bethlehem Judah whose
that efj recite of Bethlehem Judah whose name was Jesse and who had eight sons
name was Jesse and who had eight sons
name was Jesse and who had eight sons and the man was old advanced in years in
and the man was old advanced in years in
and the man was old advanced in years in the days of Saul the three oldest sons
the days of Saul the three oldest sons
the days of Saul the three oldest sons of Jesse had gone to follow soul to the
of Jesse had gone to follow soul to the
of Jesse had gone to follow soul to the battle the names of his three sons who
battle the names of his three sons who
battle the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the
went to the battle were Eliab the
went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn next to him a Benedum and the
firstborn next to him a Benedum and the
firstborn next to him a Benedum and the third Shama David was the youngest and
third Shama David was the youngest and
third Shama David was the youngest and the three oldest followed Sol but David
the three oldest followed Sol but David
the three oldest followed Sol but David occasionally went and returned from
occasionally went and returned from
occasionally went and returned from Seoul to feed his father's sheep at
Seoul to feed his father's sheep at
Seoul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem and the Philistine drew near
Bethlehem and the Philistine drew near
Bethlehem and the Philistine drew near and presented himself forty days morning
and presented himself forty days morning
and presented himself forty days morning and evening then Jesse said to his son
and evening then Jesse said to his son
and evening then Jesse said to his son David take now for your brothers an
David take now for your brothers an
David take now for your brothers an ephah of this dried grain and these ten
ephah of this dried grain and these ten
ephah of this dried grain and these ten loaves and run to your brother's at the
loaves and run to your brother's at the
loaves and run to your brother's at the camp and carry these 10 cheese's to the
camp and carry these 10 cheese's to the
camp and carry these 10 cheese's to the captain of their thousand and see how
captain of their thousand and see how
captain of their thousand and see how your brother's fare and bring back news
your brother's fare and bring back news
your brother's fare and bring back news of them
of them
of them now soul and they and all the men of
now soul and they and all the men of
now soul and they and all the men of Israel were in the Valley of Elah
Israel were in the Valley of Elah
Israel were in the Valley of Elah fighting with the Philistines
fighting with the Philistines
fighting with the Philistines so David rose early in the morning left
so David rose early in the morning left
so David rose early in the morning left the sheep with a keeper and took the
the sheep with a keeper and took the
the sheep with a keeper and took the things and went as Jesse had commanded
things and went as Jesse had commanded
things and went as Jesse had commanded him and he came to the camp as the army
him and he came to the camp as the army
him and he came to the camp as the army was going out to the fight and shouting
was going out to the fight and shouting
was going out to the fight and shouting for the battle for Israel and the
for the battle for Israel and the
for the battle for Israel and the Philistines had drawn up in battle array
Philistines had drawn up in battle array
Philistines had drawn up in battle array army against army and David left his
army against army and David left his
army against army and David left his supplies in the hand of the supply
supplies in the hand of the supply
supplies in the hand of the supply keeper ran to the army and came and
keeper ran to the army and came and
keeper ran to the army and came and preaches his brothers then as he talked
preaches his brothers then as he talked
preaches his brothers then as he talked with him there was the champion the
with him there was the champion the
with him there was the champion the Philistine of Gath Goliath by name
Philistine of Gath Goliath by name
Philistine of Gath Goliath by name coming up from the armies of the
coming up from the armies of the
coming up from the armies of the Philistines and he spoke according to
Philistines and he spoke according to
Philistines and he spoke according to the same words so David heard them and
the same words so David heard them and
the same words so David heard them and all the men of Israel when they saw the
all the men of Israel when they saw the
all the men of Israel when they saw the man fled from him and were dreadfully
man fled from him and were dreadfully
man fled from him and were dreadfully afraid so the men of Israel said have
afraid so the men of Israel said have
afraid so the men of Israel said have you seen this man who has come up surely
you seen this man who has come up surely
you seen this man who has come up surely has come up to defy Israel and it shall
has come up to defy Israel and it shall
has come up to defy Israel and it shall be that the man who kills him the King
be that the man who kills him the King
be that the man who kills him the King will enrich with great riches will give
will enrich with great riches will give
will enrich with great riches will give him his daughter and give his father's
him his daughter and give his father's
him his daughter and give his father's house exemption from taxes in Israel
house exemption from taxes in Israel
house exemption from taxes in Israel then David spoke to the man who stood by
then David spoke to the man who stood by
then David spoke to the man who stood by him
him
him what shall be done for the man who kills
what shall be done for the man who kills
what shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the
this Philistine and takes away the
this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel for who is this
reproach from Israel for who is this
reproach from Israel for who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should
uncircumcised Philistine that he should
uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the Living God so
defy the armies of the Living God so
defy the armies of the Living God so shall it be done for the man who kills
shall it be done for the man who kills
shall it be done for the man who kills him now Eliab his oldest brother heard
him now Eliab his oldest brother heard
him now Eliab his oldest brother heard when he spoke to the man and Elias anger
when he spoke to the man and Elias anger
when he spoke to the man and Elias anger was aroused against David why did you
was aroused against David why did you
was aroused against David why did you come down here and with whom have you
come down here and with whom have you
come down here and with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness I
left those few sheep in the wilderness I
left those few sheep in the wilderness I know your pride and the insolence of
know your pride and the insolence of
know your pride and the insolence of your heart for you have come down to see
your heart for you have come down to see
your heart for you have come down to see the battle what have I done now is there
the battle what have I done now is there
the battle what have I done now is there not a cause when you turn from him
not a cause when you turn from him
not a cause when you turn from him toward another and said the same thing
toward another and said the same thing
toward another and said the same thing and these people answered him as the
and these people answered him as the
and these people answered him as the first ones did now when the words which
first ones did now when the words which
first ones did now when the words which David spoke were heard they reported
David spoke were heard they reported
David spoke were heard they reported them to Saul and he sent for him then
them to Saul and he sent for him then
them to Saul and he sent for him then David said to Saul let no man's heart
David said to Saul let no man's heart
David said to Saul let no man's heart fail because of him your servant will go
fail because of him your servant will go
fail because of him your servant will go and fight with this Philistine you are
and fight with this Philistine you are
and fight with this Philistine you are not able to go against this Philistine
not able to go against this Philistine
not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him you are a youth and he
to fight with him you are a youth and he
to fight with him you are a youth and he a man of war from his youth your servant
a man of war from his youth your servant
a man of war from his youth your servant used to keep his father's sheep and when
used to keep his father's sheep and when
used to keep his father's sheep and when a lion or a bear came and took a lamb
a lion or a bear came and took a lamb
a lion or a bear came and took a lamb out of the flock I went out after it and
out of the flock I went out after it and
out of the flock I went out after it and struck it and delivered the lamb from
struck it and delivered the lamb from
struck it and delivered the lamb from its mouth and when it arose against me
its mouth and when it arose against me
its mouth and when it arose against me I caught it by its beard and struck and
I caught it by its beard and struck and
I caught it by its beard and struck and killed him your servant has killed both
killed him your servant has killed both
killed him your servant has killed both lion and bear and this uncircumcised
lion and bear and this uncircumcised
lion and bear and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them
Philistine will be like one of them
Philistine will be like one of them seeing he has defied the armies of the
seeing he has defied the armies of the
seeing he has defied the armies of the Living God the Lord who delivered me
Living God the Lord who delivered me
Living God the Lord who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the
from the paw of the lion and from the
from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear he will deliver me from
paw of the bear he will deliver me from
paw of the bear he will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine go
the hand of this Philistine go
the hand of this Philistine go the Lord be with you so soul clothed
the Lord be with you so soul clothed
the Lord be with you so soul clothed David with his armor and he put a bronze
David with his armor and he put a bronze
David with his armor and he put a bronze helmet on his head he also clothed him
helmet on his head he also clothed him
helmet on his head he also clothed him with a coat of name
with a coat of name
with a coat of name David fastened his sword to his armor
David fastened his sword to his armor
David fastened his sword to his armor and tried to walk for he had not tested
and tried to walk for he had not tested
and tried to walk for he had not tested them and David said to Saul I cannot
them and David said to Saul I cannot
them and David said to Saul I cannot walk with these for I have not tested
walk with these for I have not tested
walk with these for I have not tested them so David took them off then he took
them so David took them off then he took
them so David took them off then he took his staff in his hand and he chose for
his staff in his hand and he chose for
his staff in his hand and he chose for himself five smooth stones from the
himself five smooth stones from the
himself five smooth stones from the brook and he put them in a shepherd's
brook and he put them in a shepherd's
brook and he put them in a shepherd's bag in a pouch which he had and his
bag in a pouch which he had and his
bag in a pouch which he had and his sling was in his hand and he drew near
sling was in his hand and he drew near
sling was in his hand and he drew near to the Philistine so the Philistine came
to the Philistine so the Philistine came
to the Philistine so the Philistine came and began drawing near to David the man
and began drawing near to David the man
and began drawing near to David the man who bore the shield went before him and
who bore the shield went before him and
who bore the shield went before him and when the Philistines looked about and
when the Philistines looked about and
when the Philistines looked about and saw David he disdained him for he was
saw David he disdained him for he was
saw David he disdained him for he was only a youth ready and good-looking am i
only a youth ready and good-looking am i
only a youth ready and good-looking am i a dog that you've come to me with sticks
a dog that you've come to me with sticks
a dog that you've come to me with sticks and the Philistine cursed David by his
and the Philistine cursed David by his
and the Philistine cursed David by his gods come to me and I will give your
gods come to me and I will give your
gods come to me and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and the
flesh to the birds of the air and the
flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field you come to me with
beasts of the field you come to me with
beasts of the field you come to me with a sword with a spear and with a javelin
a sword with a spear and with a javelin
a sword with a spear and with a javelin but I come to you in the name of the
but I come to you in the name of the
but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts the god of the armies of
Lord of hosts the god of the armies of
Lord of hosts the god of the armies of Israel whom you have defied this day the
Israel whom you have defied this day the
Israel whom you have defied this day the Lord will deliver you into my hand and I
Lord will deliver you into my hand and I
Lord will deliver you into my hand and I will strike and take your head
will strike and take your head
will strike and take your head and this day I will give the carcasses
and this day I will give the carcasses
and this day I will give the carcasses of the camp of the Philistines to the
of the camp of the Philistines to the
of the camp of the Philistines to the birds of the air and the wild beasts of
birds of the air and the wild beasts of
birds of the air and the wild beasts of the earth that all the Earth may know
the earth that all the Earth may know
the earth that all the Earth may know that there is a God in Israel that all
that there is a God in Israel that all
that there is a God in Israel that all this assembly shall know that the Lord
this assembly shall know that the Lord
this assembly shall know that the Lord does not save with sword and spear for
does not save with sword and spear for
does not save with sword and spear for the battle is the Lord's and He will
the battle is the Lord's and He will
the battle is the Lord's and He will give you into our hands so it was when
give you into our hands so it was when
give you into our hands so it was when the Philistine arose and came and drew
the Philistine arose and came and drew
the Philistine arose and came and drew near to meet David but David Herod and
near to meet David but David Herod and
near to meet David but David Herod and ran toward the army to meet the
ran toward the army to meet the
ran toward the army to meet the Philistine and David put his hand in his
Philistine and David put his hand in his
Philistine and David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and he slung it
bag and took out a stone and he slung it
bag and took out a stone and he slung it and struck the Philistine in his
and struck the Philistine in his
and struck the Philistine in his forehead so that the stone sank into his
forehead so that the stone sank into his
forehead so that the stone sank into his forehead
and he fell on his face to the air so
and he fell on his face to the air so David prevailed over the Philistine with
David prevailed over the Philistine with
David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and a stone and struck the
a sling and a stone and struck the
a sling and a stone and struck the Philistine and killed but there was no
Philistine and killed but there was no
Philistine and killed but there was no sword in the hand of David therefore
sword in the hand of David therefore
sword in the hand of David therefore David ran and stood over the Philistine
David ran and stood over the Philistine
David ran and stood over the Philistine took his sword and threw it out of its
took his sword and threw it out of its
took his sword and threw it out of its sheath and killed him and cut off his
sheath and killed him and cut off his
sheath and killed him and cut off his head with it when the Philistines saw
head with it when the Philistines saw
head with it when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead they fled
that their champion was dead they fled
that their champion was dead they fled now the man of Israel and Judah arose
now the man of Israel and Judah arose
now the man of Israel and Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines
and shouted and pursued the Philistines
and shouted and pursued the Philistines as far as the entrance of the valley and
as far as the entrance of the valley and
as far as the entrance of the valley and to the gates of Ekron and were wounded
to the gates of Ekron and were wounded
to the gates of Ekron and were wounded over Philistines FEV along the road to
over Philistines FEV along the road to
over Philistines FEV along the road to share and even as far as Gath than a
share and even as far as Gath than a
share and even as far as Gath than a current then the children of Israel
current then the children of Israel
current then the children of Israel returned from chasing the Philistines
returned from chasing the Philistines
returned from chasing the Philistines and they plundered their tents and David
and they plundered their tents and David
and they plundered their tents and David took the head of the Philistine and
took the head of the Philistine and
took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem but he put his
brought it to Jerusalem but he put his
brought it to Jerusalem but he put his armor in his tent
when Saul saw David going out against
when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine he said to Abner the
the Philistine he said to Abner the
the Philistine he said to Abner the commander of the army labna whose son is
commander of the army labna whose son is
commander of the army labna whose son is this youth as your soul lives o King I
this youth as your soul lives o King I
this youth as your soul lives o King I do not know inquire whose son this young
do not know inquire whose son this young
do not know inquire whose son this young man is then as David returned from the
man is then as David returned from the
man is then as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine Abner took
slaughter of the Philistine Abner took
slaughter of the Philistine Abner took him and brought him before soul with the
him and brought him before soul with the
him and brought him before soul with the head of the Philistine in his hand and
head of the Philistine in his hand and
head of the Philistine in his hand and soul said to him whose son are you young
soul said to him whose son are you young
soul said to him whose son are you young men I am the son of your servant Jesse
men I am the son of your servant Jesse
men I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehem I